# Welcome to the Beaudrot Lab!

Note to lab members: this document is a work in progress and may be updated at any time. Please make sure that you review the lab policies on a regular basis (semi-annually). It is your responsibility to be familiar with the content. Upon joining the lab, please contact me to be added to the lab github organization. Here are some instructions you can use to get started using github: https://cfss.uchicago.edu/git05.html

## Philosophy
My primary goal is to help you make the transition from a student to a colleague. You should be an independent and professional research ecologist by the time you leave MSU. One of the most important things you can do to make this transition is take ownership of your decisions and be proactive about figuring out what you need to do. Lots of other people, including me, will give you advice during your time here. You need to sort through the advice, integrate it with your own knowledge, and decide on the best path for you. You will need to make many decisions, from those concerning research methods to how to manage your time. **Your decisions should be well-thought-out and you will need to justify them.** Sometimes the decisions won’t produce the results that you want but this is an important part of the learning process and, if you have made well-informed, conscientious decisions, that is perfectly okay. This process will continue throughout your research career. Sometimes you and I will not agree. This, too, is okay as long as you have good, well-informed reasons for detouring from a path I suggest. I will generally let you know how strongly I feel about a particular issue.

From my experience, the most important predictors of success are:
1. ***Hard work***
2. ***Efforts to solicit feedback and ability to receive feedback*** This includes considering of other points of view, and integrating feedback and alternative perspectives in your research process
3. ***Persistence*** Rejection is part of the scientific process. Everybody gets rejected and it is ok. Success is dependent on continuing to perservere after rejection.

It is a good idea to become very familiar with the literature in your field and spend time learning to code efficiently and effectively. As a graduate student and postdoc, you have a unique chance to explore new ideas and pursue topics that interest you. I encourage you to take advantage of this time, to deeply consider what motivates you, and to pursue new opportunities as they become available.

## Our one-on-one meetings
It is important that we meet regularly to make sure communication is open from your side and mine about how your work is going. I expect you will drive the agenda of our one-on-one meetings, providing a list of things we need to discuss—this is part of your taking charge of your education and development. I encourage you to email me a list before the meeting, which will help me stay on track and know what you want to cover during our time. I may forget the details of your specific project in between meetings so please come prepared with a brief summary of what we discussed at our last meeting and what you have been working on since then. Please take notes at our meetings so that you can address any issues or complete any tasks we discuss. If you don't need to meet, that is ok, just let me know ahead of time. There is no need to meet just for the sake of meeting. However, canceling multiple meetings suggests to me it's worth meeting to discuss why there is not a need to have a meeting.

## Feedback on written work during meetings
To discuss written work during our one-on-one meetings, I need to have read the material ahead of time and sent you written feedback on the document at least a day or two before the meeting (or a longer period specified by you ahead of time) so that you have time to review it. I expect you to go through the feedback I have sent, digest it, and come to our meeting with specific questions and/or ideas you want to discuss or brainstorm about together, especially if you are stuck. This process will ensure we spend our limited one-on-one time together most effectively. If you hand me something at our meetings, I will not have had time to look it over and think hard about it to give you the most useful advice I can. I strongly encourage you to send me early drafts of what you write, such as graphs with bullet points of your interpretation, a methods section, a results section, a short grant or fellowship proposal, etc. I only recommend sending long drafts (e.g., an entire manuscript or close to it) after we have iterated over methods, results, and key messages from the results, or if we have already discussed the framework of a long proposal (e.g., 10+ pages). Note that the longer the writing, the more time I will need to go through it, so it's advantageous to you to move your work forward more quickly by getting feedback over short sections. Conducting the most elegantly designed analysis will get you nowhere if you don’t write it up because **written work is ultimately the most critical component of being successful in research.** 

## Publishing
Publications are your only true form of currency. Your degree alone, or even your research experiences, won’t get you a job and neither will your grades during graduate school. It is to your advantage to publish early and often. I aim to provide you with diverse project and publishing experiences, including opportunities to co-author papers because it is imperative that you get ample practice writing and producing peer reviewed publications during your time in the lab. This will help you with whatever career path you choose. Being able to write clearly and effectively is an important skill in research, policy, management, and education. 

In the lab, we strive to make our work as transparent and reproducible as possible. To that end, once you publish an article, I expect that you will upload all materials related to the project (i.e., data and code) to our lab’s Github site. Please see the “Project completion checklist” for a detailed list of tasks associated with closing out a project. 

## Letters of recommendation, editing proposals/manuscripts
I always have commitments on my schedule so please give me adequate time if you need a letter of recommendation or want me to edit a proposal or manuscript with a deadline. In most cases, a two weeks should be a sufficient amount of time (but see above about length and time). However, whenever possible, I would appreciate more advanced notice. There might be certain times when I am jammed so giving me the most amount of time possible (especially for things with hard deadlines) will ensure that you get what you need from me.  

For any letter I write or proposal you want me to look at, be sure to include all the relevant details in the email you send, i.e. the funding agency, any guidelines for letter writers or guidelines about the proposal, deadlines, where the letter should be sent, etc. For letters of recommendation, include your CV, application materials if possible (drafts at any stage will help) and any other information that can help me write the best letter possible. 

## Group lab meetings
Lab meetings provide an excellent opportunity to learn about current research by your peers and to present whatever it is that you are working on and get feedback. At the beginning of each semester, we will pick a day and time for lab meetings. Each member of the lab will present at least once a semester. You (or I) may decide that it is worth presenting more than once, depending on your particular goals for the term. This is something we can talk about at the beginning of each semester. Potential topics for the lab presenter include: general research topics, technical issues, practice presentations, discussing a paper, questions about the literature, reviewing a draft manuscript, etc.  

The presenter should send any written materials to the lab group at least two days before the meeting. Other lab members should come having read any materials and prepared to give feedback. 

## Travel – conferences and workshops
Presenting at conferences is a crucial part of your education. Conference attendance is also valuable for building your networking skills, this is especially true when you are near the end of your time in the lab and looking for postdocs or jobs. I encourage you to be thinking about what meetings you would like to attend and when. It is my intention to help cover travel expenses to some (but not necessarily all) meetings when you present research from the lab (or workshops that we both agree will further your education) but I may not always have funding available or I may only have partial funding. As such, you should apply for funding opportunities and travel funds from MSU or outside sources whenever you plan to attend a meeting. Obtaining your own conference funding helps build your CV. I encourage you to talk with me well in advance of abstract deadlines about whether a particular conference is a good fit for your work and if/what lab funds will be able to cover.

## Working in the lab and vacation
I encourage everyone to take vacations! Vacations can help you reenergize and refocus. It is your responsibility to let me know when you plan to vacation or when you will away from the lab. It helps if you tell me as soon as you know you will gone but please let me know at least two weeks in advance (for multi-day trips). 

As long as you stay on top of your work and your obligations than I have no problem with you taking vacations or working remotely on occasion. Similarly, it is your decision about the hours you would like to work and where you would like to work. I encourage you to work at your desk in the lab most week days. This helps build community and will allow you to get instant feedback from me or other lab members on a regular basis (which, in my experience, can greatly increase productivity). So far, there have not been any issues with these policies and I hope we can keep it this way.  


# Graduate students
It is your responsibility to know all of the rules and requirements for your program. You should be aware of any and all deadlines.

## Funding
The MSU IBIO program guarantees PhD students five years of funding. Funding past this time frames is not guaranteed. Your funding will come from teaching assistantships, research assistantships, and/or fellowships. I will work with you to obtain research-related funding if you don’t have it. In some cases, you may need to take the lead on proposals. I am always available to talk with you about this and I encourage you to bring up any funding issues in our meetings if you have concerns.

You should make a concerted effort to obtain as much funding on your as possible. This serves two purposes: first, it provides you with practice writing proposals (another one of those invaluable experiences). Obtaining your own funding looks excellent on your CV; second, it saves money for the lab, which can be used for other things (e.g., conference travel). Unfortunately, lab funding is a zero sum game. Once we spend it on one thing, we can’t spend it on something else. It is my intention to provide you with as much funding as I can if you are unable to secure your own. But this, of course, is dependent on what money I have available.  

## Committee meetings 
I recommend you take full advantage of your committee meetings, which should occur yearly. You won’t have all of your committee members in one room too often during your training so make sure you are extremely well-prepared. You should send the committee an agenda and any documents you want them to read three to five days before the meeting. During the meeting, you will generally give an oral presentation, letting people know the very specific goals of the meeting first and then proceeding systematically through the areas you need to address. If you aren’t prepared for your meeting, it will be clear to the committee.

## Your dissertation and publishing
I expect your PhD dissertation will comprise three or four high-quality manuscripts, in which you are the first author and I am the final author. You will likely also have to write a short introduction tying together your chapters and possibly a brief conclusion section, depending on what your committee requests. 

At least two of the manuscripts should be accepted for publication before you defend your dissertation and the other manuscripts should be submitted. The publication process can be long and arduous. Therefore you need to plan carefully. I encourage you to start on your research from the very first day you join the lab. I expect that you will submit your first paper by the end of your second year.



> The material in this code of conduct is derived from lab policies by Dr. Elise Zipkin, whose lab policies were derived from lab policies by Dr. Catherine Lindell and Dr. Regina Baucom.
